# NPI-GNN

In this work, by integrating SEAL, GraphSAGE and top-k pooling, we construct a GNN based model to predict ncRNA-protein interactions.

### Dependency

Python 3.6

pytorch 1.4.0

torch-geometric 1.4.2

### Workflow

#### 1.Generating edgelist for node2vec

>Python .\src\generate_edgelist.py --projectName yourProjectName --interactionDatasetName NPInter2

This will output five edgelist file in 'data/graph/{yourProjectName}/training_{0-4}/bipartite_graph.edgelist' and five empty folder 'data/node2vec_result/{yourProjectName}/training_{0-4}' to store node2vec result.

##### Necessary parameters**

* --projectName : The name of dataset you want to generate.
* --interactionName : The name of existing ncRNA-protein interaction dataset, like NPInter2, NPInter2_lncRNA, RPI7317,RPI2241, and RPI369.

##### Optional parameters**

* --createBalanceDataset : Default = 1. Creating balance dataset for unbalanced interaction dataset.
* --reduce: Default = 0. Whether you want to randomly reducing the interaction database, and also maintain one connected component. *1* means yes, *0* means no.
* --reduceRatio: Default = 0.5. The reduce Ratio of reduced dataset.

#### 2. Running node2vec for each fold

>Python .\node2vec-master\src\main.py --input 'data/graph/yourProjectName/training_{0-4}/bipartite_graph.edgelist' --output 'data/node2vec_result/yourProjectName/training{0-4}/result.emb'

##### Necessary parameters

* --input : The input edgelist file generated by '.\src\generate_edgelist.py'.
* --output : The output node2vec result. This parameter has a pattern: 'data/node2vec_result/{yourProjectName}/result.emb'.
The name of the output file must be result.emb, and the folder it in is the folder generated by '.\src\generate_edgelist.py'

##### Optional parameters

* please see <https://github.com/aditya-grover/node2vec>

#### 3. Generating dataset for training

>Python .\src\generate_dataset.py --projectName yourProjectName --interactionDatasetName NPInter2 --fold 0

##### Necessary parameters

* --projectName : The name of dataset you want to generate.
* --interactionName : The name of existing ncRNA-protein interaction dataset, like NPInter2, NPInter2_lncRNA, RPI7317,RPI2241, and RPI369.
* --fold : Generating dataset for which fold, 0-4


##### Optional parameters

* --createBalanceDataset : Default = 1. This parameter must keep it as same as you run src/generate_edgelist.py
* --shuffle: Default = 1. Shuffle interactions before generate dataset, *1* means yes, *0* means no.
* --noKmer: Default = 0. If you don't want to add *k*-mer frequencies into node feature, set it to *1*;

#### 4. Running cross validation of NPI-GNN  and save models.

>Python .\src\train_with_twoDataset.py --trainingName nameOfTraining --datasetName yourProjectName --interactionDatasetName NPInter2 --epochNumber 50 --fold 0

This will save modules and training log in 'result/{yourProjectName}'.Every five epochs report the model performance and save the model. Please note that the paper uses the performance of the model with the largest mean MCC in a cross-validation. 

##### Necessary parameters

* --trainingName: The name of this training.
* --datasetName: The name of dataset you want to use, and this is the same as {yourProjectName} in previous steps.
* --interactionName : The name of existing ncRNA-protein interaction dataset, like NPInter2, NPInter2_lncRNA, RPI7317,RPI2241, and RPI369.
* --fold : Which fold you want to run, 0-4.

##### Optional parameters

* --epochNumber: Default = 50. The number of epoch of each fold.
* --hopNumber：Default = 2. The hop number of *h*-hop local enclosing subgraph.
* --initialLearningRate: Default = 0.001. The initial learning rate of this training.
* --l2WeightDecay: Default = 0.001. The L2 weight decay of this training.
* --batchSize: Default = 200. The batch size of this training.

### How to use your own interaction dataset

#### 1.Prepare data

* Make you interaction dataset an xlsx file : {yourInteractionDataset}.xlsx. The format of this xlsx file, please refer to existing xlsx in 'data/source_database_data'.

* Prepare lncRNA 3-mer frequencies result : lncRNA_3_mer.txt, and put it under 'data/lncRNA_3_mer/{yourInteractionDataset}'.

* Prepare protein fasta file, create new folder '{yourInteractionDataset}' under 'data/protein_2_mer/', use 'tool/protein_2-mer_generation.py' to generate protein 2-mer result

>Python ./tool/protein_2-mer_generation.py --input_fasta_file 'Path_of_you_protein_fasta_file' --output_folder 'data/protein_2_mer/yourInteractionDataset' --k 2

##### Necessary parameters

* --input_fasta_file: The path of your protein fasta file.
* --output_folder : The folder you created : 'data/protein_2_mer/{yourInteractionDataset}'

##### Optional parameters

* --k: Default = 2. The *k* of *k*-mer frequency.

### 2. Run  workflow

When running the workflow using you on interaction dataset, all **--interactionDataset** have to be {yourInteractionDataset}.

### How to predict novel interaction based on existing data

#### 1.  Complete a Workflow 1-4 or select a completed Workflow 1-4

#### 2. run src/case_study_negativeSample.py

>python ./src/case_study_negativeSample.py --caseStudyName nameOfThisCaseStudy --projectName yourProjectName --fold 0 --interactionDatasetName NPInter2 --createBalanceDataset 1 --modelPath PathOfTheModel --threshold 0.95

This will create a folder in 'data/case_study/{nameOfThisCaseStudy}. 

##### Necessary parameters

* --caseStudyName : The name of this case study.
* --projectName : The project Name in workflow 1-4
* --fold : 0-4, select one fold of the 5-fold cross-validation and complete the case study based on it.
* --interactionDatasetName : The name of existing ncRNA-protein interaction dataset, like NPInter2, NPInter2_lncRNA, RPI7317,RPI2241, and RPI369. Please keep it the same as you run workflow 1-4.
* --createBalanceDataset : 0 or 1, be consistent with workflow 1-4
* --modelPath : The path of trained NPI-GNN model
* --threshold : The threshold that determines the sample to be positive

##### Optional parameters

* --noKmer : 0 or1, be consistent with workflow 1-4.

### How to run leave-one-out cross validation using interactions shared by NPInter2 and RPI2241

#### 1. Generate edgelist for node2vec based on NPInter2

> python ./src/generate_edgelist_NPInter2_RPI2241_mutual_interaction_study.py --projectName yourProjectName_1 --path_set_negativeInteractionKey yourNegativeInteractionKeyPath

This will generate a edgelist under 'data/graph/{yourProjectName_1}/bipartite_graph.edgelist' and a folder 'data/node2vec_result/{yourProjectName_1}'

##### Necessary parameters

* --projectName : the name of this project

##### Optional parameters

* --path_set_negativeInteractionKey: default = 'data/set_allInteractionKey/1223_1/set_negativeInteractionKey_all', if you want to use other randomly selected negative sample, just change '1223_1' to other project name. But the project you choose must be based on NPInter2.

#### 2. run node2vec

>python ./node2vec-master/src/main.py --input data/graph/{yourProjectName_1}/bipartite_graph.edgelist -- output data/node2vec_result/{yourProjectName_1}/result.emb


#### 3. run leave-one-out cross validation based on NPInter2

> ./run_mutualInteraction_NPInter2.bat yourProjectName_1 1223_1

When generating edgelist, if you don't use the default negative sample, 1223_1 should be changed to the corresponding project name

#### 4. Generate edgelist for node2vec based on RPI2241

> python ./src/generate_edgelist_NPInter2_RPI2241_mutual_interaction_study.py --projectName yourProjectName_2 -- interactionDatasetName RPI2241 --createBalanceDataset 0 

This will generate a edgelist under 'data/graph/{yourProjectName_2}/bipartite_graph.edgelist' and a folder 'data/node2vec_result/{yourProjectName_2}'

##### Necessary parameters

* --projectName : the name of this project, the project name here should be different from yourProjectName_1 in Step 1 and 2
* --interactionDatasetName : must be RPI2241
* --createBalanceDataset must be 0

#### 5. run node2vec

>python ./node2vec-master/src/main.py --input data/graph/{yourProjectName_2}/bipartite_graph.edgelist -- output data/node2vec_result/{yourProjectName_2}/result.emb

#### 6. run leave-one-out cross validation based on RPI2241

>.\run_mutualInteraction_RPI2241.bat yourProjectName_2


### How to reduce NPInter dataset

>python ./src/generate_edgelist.py --projectName nameOfThisReduction --reduce 1 --reduceRatio 0.25

This will generate a reduced NPInter2 at 'data/source_database_data/NPInter2_{reduceRatio}.xlsx'
##### Necessary parameters

* --projectName : The name of this reduction
* --reduce : must be 1
* --reduceRatio : The reduce ratio you want to use

### How to use NPI-GNN predict know interaction

#### 1.  Complete a Workflow 1-4 or select a completed Workflow 1-4

#### 2. run src/case_study.py

>python ./src/case_study.py --caseStudyName nameOfThisCaseStudy --projectName yourProjectName --fold 0 --interactionDatasetName NPInter2 --createBalanceDataset 1 --modelPath PathOfTheModel

This will create a folder in 'data/case_study/{nameOfThisCaseStudy}

##### Necessary parameters

* --caseStudyName : The name of this case study.
* --projectName : The project Name in workflow 1-4
* --fold : 0-4, select one fold of the 5-fold cross-validation and complete the case study based on it.
* --interactionDatasetName : The name of existing ncRNA-protein interaction dataset, like NPInter2, NPInter2_lncRNA, RPI7317,RPI2241, and RPI369. Please keep it the same as you run workflow 1-4.
* --createBalanceDataset : 0 or 1, be consistent with workflow 1-4
* --modelPath : The path of trained NPI-GNN model

##### Optional parameters

* --noKmer : 0 or1, be consistent with workflow 1-4